 Differing Birth weight among infants of US born blacks, african-born blacks, and us born whites


Birth weights of infants of black women are lower than those of white women. 
Results: incidence of low birth weight (<2500g) was 13.2% among US born black women, 7.1% among African born black women, 4.3% among US born white women 


For low risk women (20-39 yrs, 12 yrs of education, etc): 7.5% among US born black women, 3.6% among african born women, 2.4% among white women


Conclusion: birth weight patterns of african-born black women more similar to Us born white women than Us born black women


 If genetics played a prominent part in determining black–white differences in birth weight, the infants of the African-born black women should have had lower birth weights than those of the U.S.-born black women. We found the opposite: regardless of socioeconomic status, the infants of black women born in Africa weighed more than the infants of comparable black women born in the United States. Therefore, genetic determinants is not supported


Allostatic Load in Foreign-Born and US-Born Blacks: Evidence From the 2001–2010 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey Lauren A. Doamekpor, PhD, MPH, and Gniesha Y. Dinwiddie, PhD
Allostatic load: cumulative impact of psychological responses to chronic stressors that continuously activate hormonal responses, thought to increase risk for physical and mental disorders
--offers a reason for health decline among immigrants over time
--smoking/heavy drinking: shown to have a stress-buffering role among blacks, protecting against mental health vulnerability but bad for physical health
Conclusion: healthy immigrant effect or health paradox does exist for Black immigrants but dissipates as they adapt to the US cultural context. This health deterioration may be explained by overexposure to race-related stress and racism, which are more powerful predictors of health declines than are diet and adverse health behaviors.


Health Among Black Children by Maternal and Child Nativity Arun S. Hendi, MA, Neil K. Mehta, PhD, and Irma T. Elo, PhD, MPA
Objectives. We examined 5 health outcomes among Black children born to US-born and foreign-born mothers