 and whether differences by mother’s region of birth could be explained by maternal duration of US residence, child’s place of birth, and familial sociodemographic characteristics
Results. Children of foreign-born mothers were healthier across all 5 outcomes than were children of US-born mothers. Among children of foreign-born mothers, US-born children performed worse on all health outcomes than children born abroad. African-origin children had the most favorable health profile, more than children of Latin American or caribbean born mothers. Longer duration of US residence among foreign-born mothers was associated with poorer child health. Maternal educational attainment and other sociodemographic characteristics did little to explain these differences.
Selection effect: healthy african immigrants more likely to immigrate. African mothers with higher education attainment more likely to immigrate, whereas latin american/caribbean mothers don’t often have high educational attainement


Could not found a factor to explain the difference in health outcomes among black children of US and foreign born mothers (not family income, marital status, or maternal education)
Children of african mothers have better health outcomes than children of latin american/caribbean mothers.


Cultural buffering: something people bring from their place of origin to help them adjust to new place (like healthy diet, family ties)


Discrimination and Health Nancy Krieger
After controlling for poverty: adjusting for poverty substantially reduces excess risk of African Americans for low birth weight in comparison for whites


Racial Context, Black Immigration and the U.S. Black/White Health Disparity Jen’nan Ghazal Read
-questions: is the black immigrant health advantage uniform across groups or does it vary by region of birth? Is their advantage due to selectivity, culture, socioeconomic status, or racism?
-conclusion: racial context of origin matters (the experience of being a racial minority or majority)
-region of origin affects health through: exposure to stressful life events, position in stratification system (social position), racial identity formation, reference group (for us blacks, the reference